Like I said, you can grab any repo
you have, you can use this one.
Tomorrow, I'll have another repo
that we'll use and stuff like that.
But, you just don't have
push access to my repo, so
you would have to fully fork it and
not just clone it at that point.
But I'm going to just make a new branch.
Cool, and we can go in here and
we'll make a new folder and
a hobbyist code.
Really doesn't ever want me to
put anything on the top level,
let's go down here and do it.
I could have just created it from
the command line as well, but
here we are .GitHub.
And there's a lot of other things
you can do with this directory,
you can put like pull request
templates and issue templates and
all sorts of other fun stuff, code owners.
I will say workflows, and
let's make a file called unit-test.yml.
If someone sees me mistype something,
I am not looking at notes or
anything I'm just doing this live,
other than the fact I'm copying and
pasting the entire workflow, sweet.
And this is it.
All we need to do to configure our CI CD
process is open up a PR, right?
If this was in main it would run on every
PR, we open up a PR, you don't have
to do that classic thing which is as
you're working on the build system,
you're breaking every build, it will only
work in that PR until it merges into main.
And this is found in the notes
in the repo as well,
it's under getting started
with GitHub Actions.
And with that,
what I'm gonna do is just do a,
I really like the GitHub UI.
I'm only gonna commit that unit-test.
We'll just kind of push it up.
And then we'll open it up, and here, and
we can see that we've got
a new branch with a PR,
Add our very first or your very first,
maybe, GitHub Action.
Empty, empty pull requests comment.
This is the bad part about being the boss
is I don't like the template, so
I even deleted just open up empty PRs,
if it's like update lint tests,
I'm like what what do you want me to say?
I updated the lints or
lint errors, leave me alone.
So, you're learning some
of my toxic traits.
So, one of the things that we can see here
is, this is new happening right here,
which is run unit-test,
that seems familiar.
Didn't I just make an action
called run unit-tests?
I did.
It's a build and test and
it's failing, and we'll find out why.
Cool, cool, cool.
Yeah, cuz in this repo
running npm test had
that error to make you go into a folder.
I have two choices.
I can literally, and that's at exit one,
which is not intentional but I'm really
glad that that played out because I was
like if it exits anything other than zero,
your build process fails, and
I literally have a very explicit exit one.
And so the build process fails.
So, I can make that work.
But what's cool about this
is you'll notice that,
That's not breaking any other pull request
that didn't have this would still be fine.
That action only runs on this PR because
that's where that file is found.
Once that gets merged into main, then
yeah, other things would fail based on it.
But it means I can work on
a GitHub workflow without
having to mess up anything.
So, cool, accidental intentional thing.
I am pretty sure that was just helpful so
that we're running the right set
of tests but I'm pretty sure I can just
do an npm test and we'll find out.
I think I don't have any
intentionally failing tests in there.
Cool, gotta go up two levels,
maybe three, Npm test.
Fun fact if you are talking and
coding at the same time,
if your npm test is npm test, again,
cue some kind of exhibit name.
We'll do vitest, there we go.
Npm tests and you can see it
running through my test suite.
Look at that.
They all pass, that's good.
Now it goes into watch mode.
One thing is that vitest out of the box,
most CI,
CD processes set a CI
environment variable.
If it is true it will do it in run mode.
If you don't trust that you can
also choose to do a dash dash run.
Cool, and so we will update.
Let's at least try to make
sure we're good citizens.
Update test script and
package JSON, right on.
And if you use a GitHub UI, you can
see that I already have the instant
feedback here to know that
this was a failing build.
Cool, cool, cool.
And we'll add our very first GitHub
action, you can see it's running.
So let's go into details, and it's queued,
which means no machine in GitHub's
fleet has picked it up yet.
Possibly because I did
a bad thing earlier.
No, that one seems to be running.
I didn't push out
the infinite loop before.
But this gives us a chance to see
what the UI looks like in this case.
One of the things I will have to do is
kick something off and start talking,
because some of these things
are not instantaneous.
This is, if you go into actions
in your repo, what you will see,
you'll see all the different
jobs that you've had.
This one is called build and test, for
reasons that you can take a lucky
guess where we're going with this.
You can see the actual workflow
file itself, we've seen it.
The usage, right?
Eventually, we will see stuff like caches.
As you can see that as
the script is running,
you can actually see what you saw in
the terminal, kind of like in the UI.
So that if it does break,
you will see a very similar situation
to what you might have seen
running on your own machine.
And then when it's all good, you can see
that you get a little green checkmark.
All right, we go back to our PR.
And you can see that we
got a checkmark here.
In fact someone gave it
a thumbs up as well.
And now all checks have passed,
and I can merge it in.
Now, there are some things that
we might choose to do here, but
that was our very first run your
unit-test GitHub action, not that hard.